#summary Tips for resolving common problems.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This page contains solutions to problems frequently experienced by users of AutoKey.

----

=== AutoKey will not start properly - the icon does not appear and if I run it from the terminal, there is no output. ===
If you installed from a .deb or using apt-get, and had installed a previous version of AutoKey manually (using sudo python setup.py install), you will need to clean up your system of these conflicting versions as follows:

{{{
sudo apt-get --purge remove autokey
sudo rm -Rf /usr/local/lib/python`*`/dist-packages/autokey`*`
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/autokey
}}}

Then install again using apt-get or the from .deb (don't install it any other way).

=== After I upgraded to the latest version, when I start AutoKey I get the message "ImportError: No module named configurationmanager" ===
You will need to repair your configuration file as follows:

  # Open your configuration file (autokey.bin) in a text editor.
  # Replace all occurences of iconfigurationmanager with iautokey.configurationmanager
  # Replace all occurences of iphrase with iautokey.phrase
  # Save

=== How do I know which interface to use? (Settings->Advanced Settings->Device Interface) ===
When you start AutoKey for the first time, it attempts to choose the best possible option for you. For most people, this should work fine. As the dialog states, only change the setting if AutoKey is not responding to hotkeys and abbreviations. In that case, you can simply try the various options and see which works best for you. Note that some of the interfaces don't work at all, depending on your distribution. To summarise:

X Record: Will work in any distribution using X.org server prior to version 1.6. E.g. Ubuntu Jaunty upgrades the server to v1.6, and as a result XRecord will not work.
X EvDev: Should work in most cases, except if you are using 'exotic' hardware such as Bluetooth keyboards (or any keyboard device that does not use the EvDev X driver).
AT-SPI: Only works when the active window is a GTK-based application (including Firefox 3). Also requires certain configuration items in your Gnome environment to be enabled (see below).

=== The AT-SPI device interface option is greyed out/disabled. ===
To enable this interface, you must have the AT-SPI packages installed and be running a GNOME-based distribution. The AT-SPI interface is a last-ditch option in case the other two options don't work. It only works in certain applications (to be exact, GTK-based applications that have the ATK bridge compiled in).

To enable it, run the following:

{{{
sudo apt-get install python-pyatspi 
}}}

You must then enable accessible technologies via the Gnome Accessibility Settings applet. Another way to get this interface up and running is to install an application called Accersizer. The first time you start Accersizer, it will enable the correct settings for you.

=== When I start AutoKey I get the message "Unable to connect to EvDev daemon" ===
Ensure that the AutoKey EvDev daemon is running by running the following command:

{{{ 
sudo invoke-rc.d autokey restart 
}}}

=== AutoKey mixes up some characters when it sends my phrases. I am using a non-US keyboard layout with a hotkey or panel applet to switch between layouts. ===
AutoKey only recognises layout switches that take place within the X Server. The hotkey/panel applet layout switchers do a 'soft' switch which does not actually change the underlying X keymap. Aside from this, the methods for switching are so varied and inconsistent, it would be impossible to cater for them all. If you wish to use multiple keyboard layouts, you will need to switch between them using setxkbmap. You could set up a hotkey within AutoKey to run setxkbmap and perform the switching. Note that using setxkbmap to set the layout will disable all other methods (hotkey/panel applet).

=== I disabled the tray icon, and I don't know the hotkey for displaying the configuration window. ===
The default hotkey for displaying the configuration window is Control+K. If this does not work, you can force the configuration window to be shown at startup by running AutoKey with the -c switch:

{{{ 
autokey -c 
}}}